Suzanne takes you down to her place near the river
You can hear the boats go by
And you can spend the night beside her
And you know, that she's half crazy
But that's why you want to be there
And she feeds you tea and oranges
That come all the way from China
And just when you mean to tell her
That you have no love to give her
Then she gets you on her wavelength
And she lets the river answer
That you've always been her lover
And you want to travel with her
And you want to travel blind
And you know that she will trust you
For you've touched her perfect body with your mind
(1409617727513)Come over to the window
My little darling
I'd like to try to read your palm
I used to think I was some kind of Gypsy boy
Before I let you take me home
Now so long, Marianne
It's time that we began
To laugh
And cry and cry and laugh about it all again
Well you know that I love to live with you
But you make me forget so very much
I forget to pray for the Angels
And then the Angels forget to pray for us
Now so long, Marianne
It's time that we began
(1409617727513)It's four in the morning, the end of December
I'm writing you now just to see if you're better
New York is cold, but I like where I'm living
There's music on Clinton Street all through the evening
I hear that you're building your little house deep in the desert
You're living for nothing now, I hope you're keeping some kind of record
Yes, and Jane came by with a lock of your hair
She said that you gave it to her
That night that you planned to go clear
Did you ever go clear?

(1409617727513)It's true that all the men you knew were dealers
Who said they were through with dealing
Every time you gave them shelter
I know that kind of man
It's hard to hold the hand of anyone
Who is reaching for the sky just to surrender
Who is reaching for the sky just to surrender
And then sweeping up the jokers that he left behind
You find he did not leave you very much not even laughter
Like any dealer he was watching for the card
That is so high and wild
He'll never need to deal another
He was just some Joseph looking for a manger
He was just some Joseph looking for a manger
And then leaning on your window sill
He'll say one day you caused his will
To weaken with your love and warmth and shelter
And then taking from his wallet
An old schedule of trains, he'll say
I told you when I came, I was a stranger
I told you when I came, I was a stranger
But now another stranger seems
To want you to ignore his dreams
As though they were the burden of some other
(1409617727513)Well I stepped into an avalanche,
it covered up my soul;
when I am not this hunchback that you see,
I sleep beneath the golden hills
You who wish to conquer pain,
you must learn, learn to serve me well.
You strike my side by accident
as you go down for your gold
The crippled h i that you clothe and feed
is neither starved nor cold
He does not ask for your company,
not at the centre, the centre of the world.

(1409617727513)I loved you in the morning
Our kisses deep and warm
Your hair upon the pillow
Like a sleepy golden storm.
Yes, many loved before us
I know that we are not new,
In city and in forest
They smiled like me and you,
But now it's come to distances
And both of us must try,
Your eyes are soft with sorrow,
Hey, that's no way to say goodbye.

(1409617727513)The rain falls down on last year's man
That's a Jew's harp on the table that's a crayon in his hand
And the corners of the blueprint are ruined since they rolled
Far past the stems of thumbtacks that still throw shadows on the wood
And the skylight is like skin for a drum I'll never mend
And all the rain falls down amen on the works of last year's man
I met a lady, she was playing with her soldiers in the dark
Oh, one by one she had to tell them that her name was Joan of Arc
I was in that army, yes I stayed a little while
I want to thank you, Joan of Arc for treating me so well
(1409617727513)Leonard cohen - lady midnight
I came by myself to a very crowded place;
i was looking for someone who had lines in her face.
i found her there but she was past all concern;
i asked her to hold me, i said, "lady, unfold me,"
but she scorned me and she told me
i was dead and i could never return.
Well, i argued all night like so many have before,
(1409617727513)Trav'ling lady, stay awhile
until the night is over.
I'm just a station on your way,
I know I'm not your lover.
Well I lived with a child of snow
when I was a soldier,
and I fought every man for her
(1409617727513)I believe that you heard your master sing
when I was sick in bed.
I suppose that he told you everything
that I keep locked away in my head.
Your master took you travelling,
well at least that's what you said.
And now do you come back to bring
your prisoner wine and bread?
You met him at some temple, where
they take your clothes at the door.
He was just a numberless man in a chair
who'd just come back from the war.
And you wrap up his tired face in your hair
and he hands you the apple core.
Then he touches your lips now so suddenly bare
of all the kisses we put on some time before.
And he gave you a German Shepherd to walk
with a collar of leather and nails,
and he never once made you explain or talk
about all of the little details,
such as who had a word and who had a rock,
and who had you through the mails.
Now your love is a secret all over the block,
and it never stops not even when your master fails.

(1409617727513)Oh the sisters of mercy
they are not departed or gone
They were waiting for me
when I thought that I just can't go on
And they brought me their comfort
and later they brought me this song
Oh I hope you run into them
you who've been travelling so long
Yes you who must leave everything
that you cannot control
it begins with your family
but soon it comes round to your soul
(1409617727513)It seems so long ago,
Nancy was alone,
looking at the Late Late show
through a semi-precious stone.
In the House of Honesty
her father was on trial,
in the House of Mystery
there was no one at all,
there was no one at all.
It seems so long ago,
none of us were strong;
Nancy wore green stockings
and she slept with everyone.
(1409617727513)I lit a thin green candle to make you jealous of me.
But the room just filled up with mosquitos
They heard that my body was free.
Then I took the dust of a long sleepless night
And I have put it in your little shoe.
And then I confess that I tortured the dress
That you wore for the world to look through.
I showed my heart to the doctor: he said I just have to quit.
Then he wrote himself a prescription
(1409617727513)Four o'clock in the afternoon
and I didn't feel like very much.
I said to myself, "Where are you golden boy,
where is your famous golden touch?"
I thought you knew where
all of the elephants lie down,
I thought you were the crown prince
of all the wheels in Ivory Town.
Just take a look at your body now,
there's nothing much to save
and a bitter voice in the mirror cries,
"Hey, Prince, you need a shave."
Now if you can manage to get
your trembling fingers to behave,
why don't you try unwrapping
a stainless steel razor blade?
That's right, it's come to this,
yes it's come to this,
and wasn't it a long way down,
wasn't it a strange way down?
There's no hot water
and the cold is running thin.
Well, what do you expect from
the kind of places you've been living in?
Don't drink from that cup,
it's all caked and cracked along the rim.
That's not the electric light, my friend,
that is your vision growing dim.
(1409617727513)When they poured across the border
I was cautioned to surrender
This I could not do
I took my gun and vanished
I have changed my name so often
I've lost my wife and children
But I have many friends
And some of them are with me
An old woman gave us shelter
Kept us hidden in the garret
Then the soldiers came
She died without a whisper

(1409617727513)It's four in the morning, the end of December
I'm writing you now just to see if you're better
New York is cold, but I like where I'm living
There's music on Clinton Street all through the evening.
I hear that you're building your little house deep in the desert
You're living for nothing now, I hope you're keeping some kind of record.
Yes, and Jane came by with a lock of your hair
She said that you gave it to her
That night that you planned to go clear
Did you ever go clear?
Ah, the last time we saw you you looked so much older
(1409617727513)Sometimes I find I get to thinking of the past.
We swore to each other that our love would surely last.
You kept right on loving, I went on a fast,
now I am too thin and your love is too vast.
But I know from your eyes
and I know from your smile
that tonight will be fine,
will be fine, will be fine, will be fine
for a while.

(1409617727513)Now the flames they followed Joan of Arc
As she came riding through the dark
No moon to keep her Armour bright
Then no man to get her through this darkest very smoky night
She said, "I'm tired of the war
I want the kind of work I had before
With a wedding dress or something white
To wear upon my swollen appetite"
Well, I'm glad to to hear you talk this way
You see I've watched you riding all most every single day
And theres something in me yearns to win
(1409617727513)Suzanne takes you down to her place near the river
You can hear the boats go by
You can spend the night beside her
And you know, she's half crazy
It's why you want to be there
She feeds you tea and oranges
That come all the way from China
And just when you mean to tell her
You have no love to give her
She gets you on her wavelength
And she lets the river answer
You've always been her lover
And you want to travel with her
And you want to travel blind
And know she will trust you
For you've touched her perfect body with your mind

(1409617727513)The woman in blue, she's asking for revenge,
The man in white -- that's you -- says he has no friends.
The river is swollen up with rusty cans
And the trees are burning in your promised land.
And there are no letters in the mailbox,
And there are no grapes upon the vine,
And there are no chocolates in the boxes anymore,
And there are no diamonds in the mine.
Well, you tell me that your lover has a broken limb,
You say you're kind of restless now and it's on account of him.
(1409617727513)It's four in the morning, the end of December
I'm writing you now just to see if you're better
New York is cold, but I like where I'm living
There's music on Clinton Street all through the evening.
I hear that you're building your little house deep in the desert
You're living for nothing now, I hope you're keeping some kind of record.
Yes, and Jane came by with a lock of your hair
She said that you gave it to her
That night that you planned to go clear
Did you ever go clear?
Ah, the last time we saw you you looked so much older
(1409617727513)When they poured across the border
I was cautioned to surrender
this I could not do
I took my gun and vanished
I have changed my name so often
I've lost my wife and children
but I have many friends,
and some of them are with me.
An old woman gave us shelter,
kept us hidden in the garret
then the soldiers came
she died without a whisper

(1409617727513)The stories of the street are mine
The Spanish voices laugh
The Cadillacs go creeping down
Through the night and the poison gas
I lean from my window sill
in this old hotel I chose.
Yes, one hand on my suicide
And one hand on the rose.
I know you've heard it's over now
And war must surely come,
The cities they are broke in half
And the middle men are gone.
But let me ask you one more time
O children of the dust,
These hunters who are shrieking now
Do they speak for us?

(1409617727513)Ah his fingernails, I see they're broken,
his ships they're all on fire.
The moneylender's lovely little daughter
ah, she's eaten, she's eaten with desire.
She spies him through the glasses
from the pawnshops of her wicked father.
She hails him with a microphone
that some poor singer, just like me, had to leave her.
She tempts him with a clarinet,
she waves a Nazi dagger.
She finds him lying in a heap;
(1409617727513)This a song called "The Story Of Isaac"
and it's about those who would sacrifice one generation on behalf of another.
Well, the door it opened slowly,
my father he came in,
I was nine years old.
And he stood so tall above me,
and his blue eyes they were shining
and his voice was very cold.
He said, "I've had a vision
and you know I'm strong and holy,
I must do what I've been told."
So we started up the mountain,
I was running, he was walking,
and his axe was made of burning gold.
Well, the trees they got much smaller,
yes, the lake a lady's mirror
(1409617727513)A bunch of lonesome and very quarrelsome heroes
were smoking out along the open road;
the night was very dark and thick between them,
each man beneath his ordinary load.
"I'd like to tell my story,"
said one of them so young and bold,
"I'd like to tell my story,
before I turn into gold."
But no one really could hear him,
(1409617727513)You thought that it could never happen
to all the people that you became,
your body lost in legend, the beast so very tame.
But here, right here,
between the birthmark and the stain,
between the ocean and your open vein,
between the snowman and the rain,
once again, once again,
love calls you by your name.
The women in your scrapbook
whom you still praise and blame,
you say they chained you to your fingernails
and you climb the halls of fame.
Oh but here, right here,
between the peanuts and the cage,
between the darkness and the stage,
between the hour and the age,
(1409617727513)I came upon a butcher,
he was slaughtering a lamb,
I accused him there
with his tortured lamb.
He said, "Listen to me, child,
I am what I am and you, you are my only son."
Well, I found a silver needle,
I put it into my arm.
It did some good,
(1409617727513)Like a bird on the wire
Like a drunk in a midnight choir
I have tried in my way to be free
Like a worm on a hook
Like a knight from some old fashioned book
I have saved all my ribbons for thee
If I, if I have been unkind
I hope that you can just let it go by
(1409617727513)I finally broke into the prison, I found my place in the chain
Even damnation is poisoned with rainbow
All the brave young men they're waiting now to see a signal
Which some killer will be lighting for pay
Into this furnace I ask you now to venture
You whom I cannot betray
I fought in the old revolution on the side of the ghost and the king
Of course I was very young and I thought that we were winning
I can't pretend, I still feel very much like singing
(1409617727513)I met a woman long ago
her hair the black that black can go,
Are you a teacher of the heart?
Soft she answered no.
I met a girl across the sea,
her hair the gold that gold can be,
Are you a teacher of the heart?
Yes, but not for thee.
I met a man who lost his mind
in some lost place I had to find,
follow me the wise man said,
but he walked behind.
I walked into a hospital
where none was sick and none was well,
when at night the nurses left
I could not walk at all.
Morning came and then came noon,
dinner time a scalpel blade
(1409617727513)I cannot follow you, my love
You cannot follow me
I am the distance you put between
All of the moments that we will be
You know who I am
You've stared at the sun
Well I am the one who loves
Changing from nothing to one
Sometimes I need you naked
Sometimes I need you wild
I need you to carry my children in
(1409617727513)are you guys ready?
everybody ready?
next artist is a novelist, poet, an author and an album recorder, he's been trying to get here since 10: 30 yesterday morning...
would you welcome Leonard Cohen ...
Greetings, greetings!
When I was seven years old my father used to take me to the circus.
He had a black mustache and a great vast and pansy in his lapel.
(1409617727513)Like a bird on the wire,
like a drunk in a midnight choir
I have tried in my way to be free.
Like a worm on a hook,
like a knight from some old fashioned book
I have saved all my ribbons for thee.
If I, if I have been unkind,
I hope that you can just let it go by.
(1409617727513)I cannot follow you, my love,
you cannot follow me.
I am the distance you put between
all of the moments that we will be.
You know who I am,
you've stared at the sun,
well I am the one who loves
changing from nothing to one.
(1409617727513)